The populr meaning of the term equality is that all men are  equal and all should be entitled to identity of treatment  and income.

Those who subscribe to this meaning of equality,  assert that all men are born equal and nature has willed  them to remain so.

This natural equality of man was  practically recognized in the Declaration of the Rights of  Man (1789) issued by the National Assembly of France. It  said: ?Men are born, and always contnue, free and equal in  respect of their rights.?

A similar statement is found in the  American Declaration of Independence: ?We hold these truths  to be self-evident, that all men are created equal.? But  nature has not created all men equal. Inequality is an  inescapable, natural fact and it has to be accepted by  society.

Nature has endowed men with different capacities and  so long as they differ in their wants, needs, and capacities  in satisfying them, equality in its popular sense is  inconceivable. Equality does not even imply identity of  reward for effort. The statement, then, that all men are  equal is as erroneous as that the surface of the earth is  level.

Absolute equality is, in fact, an impossible ideal.  Nature itself has created such vital differences between men  that no power can make and keep them equal. No one with eyes  in his head can or will deny the existence of these human  differences.

There are, however, certain elements of equality  which must be secured and this needs a certain levlling  process in the existing order of things. The principle of  equality was, originally, a common man?s protest against the  gross inequalities created by the superior claims of the  nobility in ancient societies. The idea of equality has,  therefore, grown out of the idea of privileges.

These  inequalities and privileges persist even in our own times.  Inequality, as such, refers to the conditions created in  society by a limited number of privileged people who have  always dominated the government of a country and used its  power for their own purpose and advantage. This class of  vested interests makes the fulfillment of their private  desires the criterion of public good.

Equality means, first  of all, that special privileges of all kinds should be  abolished. All barriers of birth, wealth, sex, caste, creed  and colour should be removed so that no one suffers from any  kind of social or political disability.

There should be, in  short, no difference between man and man and whatever rights  in here in another by virtue of his being a citizen must in  here, and to the same extent, in me also.

It means that I am  entitled to the enjoyment of all those social and political  privileges to which others are entitled. My vote in the  election of the representatives is as valuable and potential  as that of any other.

I can also become the recipient of any  office of the State for which I may be eligible. To refuse  any man access to authority is a complete denial of his  freedom, because, ?unless I enjoy the same access to power  as others, I live in an atmosphere of contingent  frustration.?

One who lives in an atmosphere of frustration  has neither any inspiration in life nor any incentive for  it. He accepts his place in society, which accident of birth  has given him, as a permanent condition of his life.

It is in  this way that the faculty of creativeness is lost and men or  a class of men becomes ?animate tools?, which Aristotle  described as the characteristic of the natural slave. There  can be no equality in a society where a few are masters and  the rest are slaves.

The principle of equality, accordingly,  means that whatever conditions are guaranteed to me, in the  form of rights, shall also, in the same measure, be  guaranteed to others, and that whatever rights are given to  others shall also be given to me. The chief characteristic  of a right is its equalitrian basis.

Equality, like liberty,  has a positive connotation as well. In this sense, it means  provision of adequate opportunity. By adequate opportunities  we do not mean equal opportunities. This is impossible. ?In  the modem world,? says Laski, ?broadly speaking, opportunity  is a matter of parental circumstances.?

All that is implied  from the provision of adequate opportunities is that the  State should provide suitable opportunities for all citizens  without any discrimination for the full development of their  intelligence.

No one should be debarred from the realization  of the ambition of his life, if he possesses the requisite  ability. The principle of equality is satisfied when the  State extends due opportunities to all for developing their  abilities to their full stature.

Equality thus involves,  first of all, absence of legal discrimination against any  one individual, group, class or race. Secondly, equal claims  to adequate opportunities for all, recognition of the fact  that there can be no difference inherent in nature between  claims of men to happiness, and especially, that no one  person or group may be sacrificed to another. Finally,  claims to a minimum of education, housing, food, and  guarantees against economic insecurity.